---
share: true
aliases:
  - Mana
  - mana
  - Mana Triad
  - mana triad
  - Mana triad
  - Armana
  - armana
  - Manon
  - manon
  - Phana
  - phana
  - mana share
---
We’re finally getting to the magic (literally). Mana is both a fundamental resource and a fundamental force, it takes the form of a particle. It’s transformative, meaning it can be transformed into other types of mana.   
## Raw Mana  
 Raw mana are mana particles that exists independently, outside of the soul. Raw mana—when it comes into contact with other types of mana—will amplify said types of mana, which I’ll explain when we get to them.  
# Mana Decay  
The soul generates mana and keeps it from expiring inside it but **once it’s outside it cannot return to the soul** and so it begins expiring (the speed of decay cannot be shortened), once it expires it either becomes a flash of light followed by radiant heat, heavy elements, or a momentary tugging force. Armana can prolong the lifespan of mana but we’ll get to that later.  
  
---  
> “One may come to mistake numbers as the ultimate truth of the world, as something that interweaves both rationality and analysis; however, the numbers themselves are but conduits by which we may physically realize and translate the abstract into the present reality.”  
> —Hohenheim, LCE Head Researcher[^1]  
---  
# Mana Casting and Cost  
Mana will always be casted directly from the [soul](../2.%20The%20Principles%20of%20Beings/2.1%20Beings.md) to the [vessel](../2.%20The%20Principles%20of%20Beings/2.1%20Beings.md) and finally outside of the vessel. The cost of each type of mana are as followed:  
- Phana: Base cost of 1 (where 1 particle of it acts as a reference) mana  
- Manon: Base cost of 50 mana  
- Armana: Base cost of 5 mana  
- **Matter**: Base cost of 1,000 mana for one unit of matter  
# Mana Capacity and Mana Regeneration in a Being  
[SV](../2.%20The%20Principles%20of%20Beings/2.2%20Experience.md) determines mana capacity and mana regeneration where capacity is ten times of SV and regeneration is the square root value of SV.  
- MC = 10 x SV  
- MR =√SV x SOM  
Keterangan:  
- MC = mana capacity  
- MR = mana regeneration  
- SOM = state of mind, its value is usually 1  
A being with 2500 soul value will have a cap of 25,000 mana and a regen rate of 50 (assuming SOM is at 1) mana per cycle where 1 cycle or regen is comparable to an hour on earth.  
# Mana Exhaustion  
Mana exhaustion is when a being depletes their mana until they begin to feel their three [aspects](../2.%20The%20Principles%20of%20Beings/2.1%20Beings.md) disconnecting, basically—they’re walking on a fine line between life and death. How do I put this… for a normal being, this line is quite easy to see.  
“Oh, I feel my life slipping away! I better conserve my mana.”  
But for a higher being, this line seems almost invisible to the point where they have to be careful in case they straight up die practicing magic. Let’s make sense of that, When you’re rich you tend to blow your money wherever and that’s a problem, by the time you check your balance you’re already empty and the debt collector is Death itself.  
# Mana Share  
Mana share is the act of expanding one’s vessel by sharing their mana onto an object or another vessel. This allows the use of reliable creation magic and healing magic.  
  
---   
# The Mana Triad   
# Phana  
A play on the words “mana” and “photon”; phana is a particle that acts the same as photons except for the fact that they expire (decaying into heat). Casting it with no prior control will result in you glowing, given that you’ve enough experience to make phana glow. If you are a significant being you can cast phana in what’s equivalent to gamma rays, highly ill-advised if you have no manon to control it.  
  
Practical uses of phana includes it being a light source or for telecommunications… or giving your enemies either blindness, skin cancer, radiation poisoning or all of the above.  
# Manon  
A play on the words “mana” and “gluon”; manon is a particle that acts as a fundamental force that is **configured to the will of the mind** meaning a being’s mind has direct influence on this particle.  It has vector force and torque meaning a being utilizing manon essentially has telekinesis. **Manon does not decay under a mind’s influence**, it will exist indefinitely until it is removed from a mind’s agency. A manon on its own only has so much strength and velocity, but when they work together it is possible to move celestial bodies. In magical combat, manon is easily disrupted by manon of another user or armana, breaking the control of being’s influence on it.  
  
The general use of manon is to have control over magic, when you cast phana from your hand, it’ll shine light everywhere from that hand but if you use manon you can focus that phana into a beam of light.  
  
If you’re stumped about how a being uses manon to move objects, think of it like this:  
you pinch on a piece of fabric (that’s one manon), you pinch on another part of that fabric (that’s two manon), you try to tear the fabric but you can’t with only two fingers on each hand so you use all ten (that’s ten manon working to tear the fabric). If you’ve enough manon you’ll be able to achieve flight, by carefully lifting yourself by your stable points on your anatomy, or accidentally rupturing yourself.  
  
Manon can move anything microscopically or macroscopically and astronomical amounts of manon are capable of deforming space.  
# Armana  
A play on the words “mana” and “architecture”; armana particles are tangible forms of mana that can be rearranged to form complexities such as the mind (the aspect that has agency over mana), **making armana as a secondary tool for the use of magic**, this allows a technique of magic known as [enchantments](./3.2%20Mana%20Interaction.md).  
  
Armana structures exist indefinitely and independently, but external forces may break those structures. Because it’s tangible, armana structures can be disrupted by physical and magical forces while also being costly to cast. It also resists said forces when designed so, these are called magical shields. When armana surrounds mana and its other types it can prolong their lifespan and allow the use of mana storage.  
  
The common use of armana are creating magical shields, creating enchantments for easier spell casting, and mana storage.  
  
# Materialized Mana  
**Every matter is created from mana**. Matter is any substance that has mass and occupies space, the creation of matter requires an expensive amount of mana as matter is persistent unlike the mana triad. This expensive cost makes [creation magic](./3.2%20Mana%20Interaction.md) unknown (noone would willingly expend so much mana) and risky both for the vessel and soul.  
  
Energy is first created when trying to create matter, if you continue to try to create matter with no control you will end up with a mess of elements (potentially dangerous due to some chemical reactions). Manon are needed to create stable and structural matter during the creation process—further making creation magic more expensive with little to virtually no energy being created from that controlled process due to the stabilization that manon allows.  
  
~~Casting~~ Creating matter comes directly from your vessel either you want it inside or outside but then there’s a problem, how do I create solid gold instead of gold flakes out of my skin? Mana share is needed for solid matter to be created, it’s a careful process of simultaneously creating matter and sharing mana with the created matter so that the created matter becomes an extension of your vessel. This is only a problem for the creation of solid matter as liquids and gasses have no fixed structure.  
.  
.  
.  
Footnotes  
[^1]: [Hohenheim](https://limbuscompany.wiki.gg/wiki/Hohenheim).  
What Hohenheim means is that reality doesn’t make sense to the human mind: numbers, however, make it easier to grasp.  
