---
share: true
aliases:
  - Portal
  - portal
  - Portals
  - portals
  - Portal magic
  - portal magic
---
The deformation and attachment on the fabric of spacetime with the usage of [manon](./3.1%20Mana.md) and [enchantments](./3.4%20Enchantments.md) for reliable use.  
  
# How Portals Are Formed  
Portals are formed when the fabric of spacetime is deformed in such a way where two points are attached. To visualize a portal:  
Grab a piece of fabric (bonus if stretchy) and fold it in half. Then take one half and fold it in half again. Open that fold and draw a line crossing the crease. When you fully open the fabric, you’ll see that the line has split into two segments, now separated by a distance.  
- The fabric represents the spacetime  
- Folding it brings two distant points in proximity  
- Drawing a line across the fold represents a continuous path through folded space.  
- When the fabric is unfolded, that single action appears as two separated points, even though they were connected while folded.  
Using glue to attach those two points, unfolding it will reveal a torus shape.   
# How to Form a Reliable Portal  
Portals themselves aren’t reliable because **they are fixed topologically**. What this means is that portals will stay in a fixed position while celestial bodies move away from them. Unideal for when you want a portal between the surface of two planets.  
  
How do we fix this? By continuously forming portals seamlessly following a desired place. I can’t stress this enough, in order to make portals fair and rare in my universe it has to be absurdly expensive and risky  
  
Unless you’re a deity, enchantments are required in order to use portal magic, this is to remove the necessity for focusing on following a designation. The shape of the object you’re looking to enchant are frames. Things like doors, gates, or any shape that has a hole in it. You then enchant it so that it uses supplied manon to (following the fabric analogy) continuously fold and glue space once activated. Now all you need to do now is to keep feeding it mana or hook it up to a mana battery. Then you can safely pass through.  
  
Assuming you’ve done only one side of the gate, you need to make another one if you want to safely return to your designation.  
  
