---
share: true
aliases:
  - Soul bind
  - soul bind
  - Soul binding
  - soul binding
  - Soul bind magic
  - soul bind magic
---
Soul bind magic is a spell where a [soul](../2.%20The%20Principles%20of%20Beings/2.1%20Beings.md), whether they still have their [mind](../2.%20The%20Principles%20of%20Beings/2.1%20Beings.md) or not, is bound to an object or a vessel using [manon](./3.1%20Mana.md) and in the case where those two mediums are unavailable [armana](./3.1%20Mana.md) is used.  
  
If you were to put someone into a simple object, their mind will persist but won’t process [experience](../2.%20The%20Principles%20of%20Beings/2.2%20Experience.md) because of the lack of senses. If, however, they were put inside an empty vessel with an equal level of cognitive function, then they’ll have complete awareness inside that vessel.  
  
If the vessel **is empty** and has a lower cognitive function than the subject, the subject will undergo regression and you may interpret that as you like. For the subject’s [memories](../2.%20The%20Principles%20of%20Beings/2.3%20Memory.md), the memories inside the mind will attempt to fill the empty vessel, but like hardware trying to store a file larger than its capacity, the memories undergo compression. The [identity](../4.%20The%20Paradigms%20of%20Reality/4.3%20Identity.md) of the subject, however, is completely present.  
  
If the mind **is empty** and has a higher cognitive function than the subject, the subject will simply have more to do. It is comparable to running the same software on far more powerful hardware..  
  
If the vessel is occupied, soul-bind is possible but the subject will have their mind slowly expire.  
  
Use cases of soul bind magic is self-preservation during life threatening situations, prisons, [teleportation magic](../3.8%20Teleportation%20Magic.md), or changing one’s vessel for a better one.