---
share: true
aliases:
  - Experience
  - experience
  - Experiences
  - experiences
  - experiencing
  - Experiencing
  - Soul value
  - soul value
  - SV
---
# General Explanation  
Experiences are moments, events, thoughts, and more that are captured by the [vessel](./2.1%20Beings.md), interpreted by the [mind](./2.1%20Beings.md), and what defines the [soul](./2.1%20Beings.md). A soul’s value is determined by how much **novel** experience it has.  
  
For example, GLaDOS is an artificial intelligence created by Aperture Science[^1]. Therefore she boasts a vessel and a mind capable of capturing experiences faster than any being in their world. However, GLaDOS’ growth is limited as she is bound to the Aperture Science Enrichment Center. GLaDOS’ only way to gain experience is to conduct tests, but this is also limited as she needs **novel** experience in order to grow. Luckily, her programming already prevents herself from repeating previous tests, Wheatley demonstrated this in the game[^2]. Technically, she is growing but she won’t get any more novel experience from repeated tests.  
  
To add to that, **different interpretations on an object may give you more novel experience**. Having already read the contents of a book might give you a different impression when you reread it.  
# Soul Value  
This topic will show a being’s soul growth as well as examples of different soul values on different beings.  
- ## Soul growth  
	An average adult human has 2.500 SV. During their infancy their SV stands at about 550 SV due to the massive boost of experience gained from attaining an awareness. Through learning new concepts in school their SV is now at 1.800 which will begin to slow down as they will run out of novel experiences. Right now, their **world** can only offer them 2.500 SV. If the environment they were born in was rich in phenomena, encounters, or occurrences, they might gain more novel experiences to break 2.500 SV.  
- ## Other Being’s Soul Value  
	- Primates: 800 SV, because of their simple mind.  
	- Modern Human: 2.500 SV, because their world can only offer them so much.  
	- Fantasy Adventurer: 3.200 SV, because their world has an understanding of magic.  
	- Broad Scientist: 4.500 SV, because the study different fields of science  
	- Archmage: 5.000 SV, because they study thaumaturgy and science.  
	- Ancient Elf: 7.000 SV, because their long life gives them many opportunities for reinterpretations.  
	- Boand AI: 4.000 SV, because they’re stuck  
	- Deities and Cosmic Intelligences: 20.000 SV  
  
.  
.  
.  
Footnotes  
[^1]: [GLaDOS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GLaDOS)  
[^2]: [Wheatley](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wheatley_(Portal))  
